Artificial intelligence (AI) in healthcare
There is always a need for continuous supervision and quick diagnosis in the case of older patients. The promise of modernizing the health system
by delivering an efficient, precise, person-centred and cost-effective healthcare has been a driver to implement new technologies. 
However, very little has been delivered to date in terms of direct patients’ care and benefits. The ethical issues remain unaddressed 
and without this regulated the wider AI implementation within the healthcare system cannot proceed. Health professionals should not blindly 
embrace technological advances but instead take them carefully when discussing algorithm-driven clinical decisions, include ML in 
multidisciplinary fields, while additionally learning new skills in 
statistics and computer science to help develop the clinical algorithms and their evaluation in routine clinical practice.



AI tools applications in the diagnosis, therapy, R&D and health management
Both Deep Learning and ML are based on recognizing patterns of images and require thousands to millions data points to construct an AI 
learning model that will provide both an accurate and quick fit for use in medical purposes, i.e. computer-aided diagnosis. 
Another useful contribution of AI is the development of novel pharmacological interventions based on virtual screening and de novo drug 
design using Deep Learning. Novel pharmacological discoveries will hopefully avoid
the adverse effects of current therapies used in older people, while reducing costs and risks related to preclinical and clinical trials.
We also see that now wearable devices have entered the market which use
AI techniques to detect early onset of diseases.



Information on types of complex algorithms developed for Alzheimer’s
With AI What is happening right now is improved patient experience, reduced cost and improved well being.
At stevens institite of technology they have used language analysis to identify whether the person has alzimers or not. They said that 
they would extend that to email and social media analysis. What if the person is alcoholic and keep blabering out will he be alzimers patient
and medicines be prescribed to him by AI.




Coverage of major issues related to the utilization of AI for diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer’s
Do patients have the right to refuse diagnostics and treatment planning by AI?
Are patients being offered a justification for holding their health data for use in algorithmic decisions?
What are the ethical issues about virtual reality treatment in patients, i.e. those with dementia and learning disability?
How will the relationship between physicians and patients change as a result of the introduction of algorithms in the provision of medical care?
Who is going to attend to unidentified methodological shortcomings?
What about monitoring technological developments to ensure preventative and precautionary safeguards for those who are involved?
Technological crime?
Tension between goals of improving health and generating profit.
algorithms might be designed to skew results, depending on motives of programmers, companies or health care systems;




Conclusion
The health system has accumulated massive datasets, largely due to the introduction of electronic records,
which include demographic information, medical history, laboratory tests and radiological investigations, 
history of surgical interventions, medication history and allergies, lifestyle etc. Such data can be used 
productively for: improving diagnosis and treatment, prevention, diagnosis and cure of communicable, acute 
and chronic diseases, considering information on lifestyle, general health and demographics, aid timely diagnosis 
and prediction/prevention of disease onset at an early stage. A promising avenue is the secondary use of electronic 
health records, where patient data are analyzed to conduct clinical and translational research. One of the advantages of 
AI is its use in geographically isolated areas, where there is limited access to healthcare, and also overcoming the 
increasing lack of specialized medical staff. In this, machine learning and deep learning are paving the way, 
enabling extensive data sets to be analyzed using algorithms, a set of rules given to an AI program to find patterns which 
are far too complex or numerous for a human programmer to extract and teach a machine to recognize.
Lot of innovations is happening within the industry.