You Have idea what to do:
Once you have a list of ideas, you don't just go out and build them
 A big component of the product manager mindset is being able to understand the real problems behind 
what people ask you to build 
If you give people what they say they want,
 you're not always solving the actual core problem Taught by: 
Figuring out if you are actually solving a real problem 
Being a product manager is all about finding a solution to a problem, 
instead of trying to fit the problem to a solution
When someone asks you to build something, ask yourself: 
- Is this solving an actual problem? 
- Can this have any unintended side effects? 
The easiest way to get to the core issues of a request is to ask "Why?"
 for three times in a row, until people get to the real pain point


The difference between users and customers:
Sometimes, the people who pay for your product (customers) 
are not the same people that use it (users) 
Taught by: The difference between users and customers 
There is a different kind of feedback that you will get from each category:
 The company that buys the product will give you feedback about 
general features that they need it to have The actual users 
will give you feedback about technical issues they 
encounter while actually using the product

Ideas come from Employees,Metrics,Users,Clients. Product Manager is not Idea person.

Two Techniques:

1	Divide & Conquer:
	Break things into smaller pieces.
	Reduce the scope into smaller manageable pieces.
2	One thing at a time:
	Finish the task, but do it one thing at a time and avoid thrashing back and forth.
	Identify all stakeholders and find how to communicate with each of them.
	Find all risks and analyze them in separate step.
	Build project schedule and identify critical path, review and resolve any critical paths. 
	
Above 2 are 2 simple techniques to simplify and manage complexity and project management process.



Strategic Plan: It is a plan for 2-3 key objectives for next 3-5 years.

Always ask the stakeholders if u get into a complexity to make a early decision and 
don’t say what to do ask them do 
you want to me to adjust the scope or cost or time? 
Take what is stakeholders priority.



First Step in project initiation is to write a One page objective and to get all the stakeholders to agree on it.

Don’t do anything unless you have project stakeholders agreement on the objective. Don’t even do business case analysis.

Give them a conceptual solution: Only major deliverables & Constraints.

Planning: It makes the project successful.

